---
layout: page
title: Appreciation and a movie
description: This a speech I write after 2023-12-03 club Table Topics.
---


Dear fellow members and distingushed guests,

Imagine sitting in a darkened theater; the screen lights up, and you are
transported to another world. The music, the lights, the characters, the story
— all crafted meticulously to elicit emotions, provoke thoughts, and inspire
dreams. This is the magic of movies, a collective effort of hundreds,
sometimes thousands, of individuals who pour their hearts and souls into
creating a world for us to experience, if only for a couple of hours.

Consider the classic tale told in the movie "The Shawshank Redemption," a
movie that didn't make much noise during its initial release, grew to be
beloved over time. It is a testament to the power of hope and the human
spirit. We appreciate not just the story, but the subtle performances, the
direction, the cinematography — all elements that coalesce into a film
that many consider one of the greatest ever made.

Turning our gaze to the stars, we have "The Martian," a cinematic celebration
of scientific endeavor and human ingenuity. This film, based on Andy Weir's
novel, tells the story of astronaut Mark Watney, played by Matt Damon, and his
struggle to survive on Mars after being left behind by his crew. It is a
riveting adventure that showcases science not as a dry collection of facts and
figures, but as a thrilling, life-saving pursuit that requires creativity,
critical thinking, and an undying spirit of exploration.

Appreciation in the context of "The Martian" extends to the scientists and
engineers who work tirelessly behind the scenes to push the boundaries of
what's possible. It's about respecting the meticulous nature of scientific
work, the trial and error, the hypotheses, and the experiments. The film
inspires us to acknowledge the marvels of modern science and technology, the
same marvels that allow us to grow food in space, communicate across the vast
emptiness, and navigate the treacherous terrain of an alien planet.

Appreciation, in essence, is about connection. When we watch a movie that
touches us, we are connecting with the creators' vision, the actors'
portrayal, the composer's melodies, and the collective efforts of all those
behind the scenes. We are also connecting with each other, sharing experiences
across the aisles of theaters or the comfort of our living rooms.

Furthermore, in our current digital age, where content is consumed rapidly and
often fleetingly, it is more important than ever to pause and appreciate the
art that we are fortunate to have at our fingertips. Streaming services have
made it possible for us to access a global library of films, each with its own
unique narrative, cultural background, and emotional palette.

So, I urge you to take a moment after watching a movie to think about what
went into making it. Appreciate the writers who crafted the story, the actors
who brought characters to life, the directors who envisioned the flow of each
scene, the composers who set the tone, the editors who ensured the rhythm was
just right, and the countless others involved in the filmmaking process.

The movie is a canvas that paints the inherent beauty of human vulnerability
and the strength that comes from it. Appreciation here extends to recognizing
the courage in others and ourselves, the courage to pursue happiness even when
circumstances seem bleak. It reminds us to value the small victories in life,
the warmth of a shared meal, the security of a job, or the laughter of a
child. It challenges us to appreciate not just our successes but also the
journey that got us there, with all its hardships and lessons.

Ladies and Gentlemen, as we walk away from these stories, let us carry with us
a renewed sense of appreciation for the world around us. Let us look at our
fellow human beings and see the heroes of their own epic tales. Let us gaze at
the night sky and not just see the stars, but also the infinite possibilities
they represent.

In closing, whether it's through the lens of a camera or the lens of a
telescope, the stories we tell and the discoveries we make all contribute to
this magnificent tapestry of human experience. "The Shawshank Redemption" and
"The Martian" are not just stories on a screen; they are reflections of our
own lives, our own struggles, and our own triumphs. They remind us to
appreciate every moment, every person, and every heartbeat of progress. They
remind us to look beyond ourselves and our immediate surroundings to the vast
potential that lies within and all around us.

So let us applaud not only the creators of these cinematic marvels but also
the spirit they embody — the spirit of appreciation for the humanity that
connects us and the science that propels us forward. Let us leave here today
with a commitment to find appreciation in the everyday — in the quiet moments,
the grand gestures, the simple acts of kindness, and the monumental
achievements of our species.

May we all continue to be inspired by the stories we watch, the lives we lead,
and the universe we are a part of. And may our appreciation for the intricate
dance of life and knowledge be the light that guides us through our own
narratives, as compelling and as rich as any film ever projected onto the
silver screen.

Thank you.